# Normalisation Theory, Dependencies
### Normalisation Theory
* The normalisation theory is used to decide whether or not $R$ is in a "good form"
* If $R$ is not in a good form, then it will be decomposed into relations $\{R_i\}$ such that
	* Each relation is itself in good form
	* The decomposition is lossless

### Functional Dependency
There are cosntraints on data in the real world. These constraints manifest in the database as functional dependencies. Some examples include:
* Students are uniquely identified by ID
* Each Student has only one name
* Each Professor is only associated with one department
* The department has just one budge

If an instance of a relation satisfies these real-world constraints, we call it a legal instance. A database is called a legal instance if all relation instances in it are legal. A functional dependency is a generalisation of the notion of a key.

#### Example
Consider $\alpha \subseteq R$ and $\beta \subseteq R$. The functional dependency $\alpha \to \beta$  only holds if any two tuples agreeing on a value for $\alpha$ implies these two tuples will also agree on a value for $\beta$. Consider the table

| A   | B   |
| --- | --- |
| 1   | 4   |
| 1   | 5   |
| 3   | 7   |

In this case, $B \to A$ holds but $A \to B$ doesn't.

#### Closure
A set of functional dependencies may be logically implied by the main set. This is decided by basic logic rules. For example,
$$A \to B,\  B \to C,\  thus\  A \to C$$
The set of all functional dependencies logically implied by $F$ is called the closure of $F$, denoted as $F^+$ 

#### Armstrong's Axioms
These are the axioms we use to compute closures
* **Reflexive Rule**: If $\beta \subseteq \alpha$, then $\alpha \to \beta$ 
* **Augmentation Rule**: If $\alpha \to \beta$, then $\gamma \alpha \to \gamma \beta$ 
* **Transitivity Rule**: If $\alpha \to \beta$, and $\beta \to \gamma$, then $\alpha \to \gamma$ 

These rules are both correct and comprehensive. Some additional derived rules include,
* **Union Rule**: If $\alpha \to \beta$ and $\alpha \to \gamma$, then $\alpha \to \beta \gamma$ 
* **Decomposition Rule**: If $\alpha \to \beta \gamma$, then $\alpha \to \beta$ and $\alpha \to \gamma$ 
* **Pseudo-Transitivity Rule**: If $\alpha \to \beta$ and $\beta \gamma \to \delta$, then $\alpha \gamma \to \delta$

