# Calling Convention
### Issues with Function-Calling
* Storing the value of each register in each function call takes more space than what we have.
* Registers can be overwritten after calling a function. The function caller may not know which registers it uses!

### Naive Solutions
* The caller pushes all registers **that it (caller) uses** on the stack before calling a function, and pops them after the function returns.
* The callee pushes all registers **that it (callee) uses** on the stack at the start of a function, and pops them before returning.
* If there is no overlap between registers used by the caller and the callee, using any of these will be pointless.

### Register Spilling in Practice
It was found that having an equal amount of designated caller and callee saved registers gives the best performance. Caller and callee saving is a **convention**, which means it isn't enforced by the language. However, it is best practice to follow it.

### Calling Convention
The calling convention tells us a lot of things about the ISA, including

* which registers are used to send function parameters
* which registers are used to return value from function
* which registers are caller-saved
* which registers are callee-saved
* which register is the stack pointer

Understand that a Calling Convention must be **Universal** to an ISA. This is because lots of different programmers will try using the same language. If you import a library written with a different calling conventions, it will break your code completely. 