# Instruction Categories
Not all of these instructions will be present in an ISA, in the exact given format. This is to give a general idea as to what kinds of instructions you will run into.

### Arithmetic Operations
* add 
* sub
* mul
* div
* mod

##### Operation Formats
Operations can be performed between two registers, or a register and an immediate. This result will be stored in a destination register.

### Logical Operations
* and
* or
* not

##### Operation Formats
`and` and `or` are typically performed only between two registers. This result is stored in a destination register. `not` accepts only one source, and stores its negation in the destination register.

### Branching Operations
* `bz (RS) (addr)` - branches to address (addr) if register (RS) is storing value 0.
* `bnz (RS) (addr)` - branches to address (addr) if register (RS) is not storing value 0.

##### Alternative Branching Approaches
* `be, blt, bgt` - compare the value of two registers, and branch depending on them.
* `cmp` - sets the value of flags, and depending on these flags the next instruction may branch somewhere.

An ISA will typically use one of these approaches to branch

### Function Operations
* `call (lbl)` - calls the function referred to with label.
* `ret` - returns from the current function

### Data Transfer / Persistence
* `ld (RD) (addr)` - loads value from memory address (addr) to register (RD)
* `st (RS) (addr)` - stores value in register (RS) to memory address (addr)
* `mov (RD) (RS / imm)` - stores value from either a source register (RS) or an immediate (imm) to a destination register (RD)

### Stack Operations
* `push (RS)` - pushes value of (RS) on the stack
* `pop (RD)` - pops the value at the top of stack into (RD)

### IO Instructions
* `input (RD)` - inputs a value into a register (RD)
* `output (RS)` - outputs the value of register (RS)