# Integer Representation
### Why Binary?
Storing in base 3, or higher, would allow us to compress more numbers in less electronic components, but it means each digit has more possible values, leading to a higher noise margin.

### Unsigned Integer
$(100)_{10} = (0110\_0100)_{2u}$

$(019)_{10} = (0001\_0011)_{2u}$

* Conversion from binary to decimal can be done via polynomial expansion.
* Conversion from decimal to binary can be done via repeated division.

**Range of Representation** - with $n$ bits, we can represent integers in the range $[0, 2^n)$. This can be verified by the cardinality of this set being $2^n$.

### Sign Magnitude 
$(-5)_{10} = -(101)_{2u} = ([1]101)_{2s}$

$(+5)_{10} = +(101)_{2u} = ([0]101)_{2s}$

* Conversion from binary to decimal and vice versa can be done by treating the non-sign bits as an unsigned integer, and then applying the sign.

**Range of Representation** - with $n$ bits, we can represent integers in the range $(-2^{n-1}, 2^{n-1})$. The cardinality of this set is $2^n-1$, as $(0)_{10}$ may be represented as either positive or negative.

### Two's Complement
$(-5)_{10} = (1011)_{2t} = (1111\_1011)_{2t}$

Interestingly, $(1011)_{2u} = (11)_{10} = 16 - 5$ 

The two in two's complement comes from us taking the complement, which when added with the unsigned number gives us $2^n$. 

##### Note 1
Due to the nature of the Two's Complement Notation, the first bit of the number also tells us what its sign is, similar to a sign bit.

##### Note 2
Suffixes attached to the base are indicative of the encoding that they follow. These are attached for understanding purposes, and are not needed in your own working. $X_{2t}$ signifies that $X$ only has the intended meaning when we interpret it in binary two's complement notation. 

This also shows that a binary number, by itself, does not equate to a decimal number. We need to know the encoding process to figure it out. Decoding the same binary nubmer assuming two different encodings can lead to different results.

### Subtraction via the Two's Complement Method
[A great video on this topic](https://youtu.be/PS5p9caXS4U)

The video explains how we can perform two's complement addition in base 10, which helps build a cleaner idea of what it does in base 2.

### Range Calculation
Suppose you want to calculate the possible range of some operation between an $m$ bit and an $n$ integer in some $R$ representation. 

* Calculate the range of the two starting numbers in decimal notation.
* Calculate the range of the operation in decimal notation.
* Convert this range back to $R$ representation, and find the number of bits needed. While doing this, the $log$ function's result is rounded up.